Programs
B.Tech
The Department runs a four-year B.Tech. programme in Computer Science and Engineering since 1983. Students, for the program, are admitted through the most prestigious UG engineering entrance exam of the country, JEE (Advanced). Show(+)
Dual Degree (IDD)
Department also offers dual degree i.e., B.Tech. and M.Tech., in Computer Science and Engineering from 2005-06. Show(+)
Ph.D.
The department is actively involved in research in many areas of Computer Science. The focus of the PhD program is on research training with a high degree of specialization. The aim of such a training is to make our PhD students very competent in their respective areas, Show(+)
Specializations:
Computer Vision
Digital image processing is the use of computer algorithms to perform image processing on digital images. As a subcategory of the digital Click for details...
AI, NLP and Information Retrieval
Natural language processing (NLP) is a field of computer science, artificial intelligence and computational linguistics concerned with the   Click for details...
Machine Learning
  Click for details...
Networks
Network group works in different areas of network viz. Network Security, Social Networks, Peer to Peer networks, Wireless Sensor Networks etc. Click for details...
High Performance Computing
HPC Group is providing training, assistance, and support for researchers and students in high performance computing in the institute. Click for details
Software Engineering Click for details
Robotics Click for details
Historical Background

The Department of Computer Engineering was established in July 1983. The department offers a 4 year course, B.Tech. in Computer Sc. & Engineering, 5 year Integrated Dual Degree (B.Tech. and M.Tech.) in Computer Sc. & Engineering from 2005-2006, and Ph.D. degree in various specializations of Computer Sc. and Engineering. Computer Sc. & Engineering is the most sought- after branch for the JEE (Advanced) selected students that come to the Institute. Our graduates have distinguished themselves in higher studies at the top Universities. They also occupy positions of eminence in the computer industry. Show(+)
News updates
Intel Workshop on AI and Machine Learning held on July 11, 2018.
Third Indian Workshop on Machine Learning (iWML) organized  during 1-3 July, 2018.
 

Major Achievements
IIT (BHU) signs MoU with Amazon to establish Cloud Research Lab on AI and ML.
Department and HP has signed MoU for innovation activities related to projects.
