#Department of Ceramic Engineering

Head of Deprtment- Prof. Vinay Kumar Singh
Offers both 4 year (B.Tech) and 5 year (IDD) courses. 
Recommended for people with interest in chemistry, material science and research in that field. Also, provides a comparitevly lower course load allowing one to pursue non-core interests.
Location : Beside Proctor Office, diagonal to MCIIE
Departmental Fest: Keramos (last organized in 2018 in the first week of March)
Facilities: Mineralogy and Microscopy Laboratory
            Glass Laboratory
            Material Characterization / PG Lab.
            Electronic Ceramic Laboratory
Specialisations: Glass and Glass Ceramics
                 Refractories
                 Electrical and Electronic Ceramics
                 Cement and Advanced Building Material
                 Bio-glass and Ceramics
History:
The founder of Banaras Hindu University, Pandit Madan Mohan Malviyaji instituted a course in Ceramic Technology as early as 1924 with the noble objective of advancing glass and ceramic technology in India. In the Year 1956, Department of Glass Technology and Department of Ceramic Technology were merged to form the Department of Silicate Technology, offering a four year degree course by injecting into its curriculum balanced engineering and scientific contents. In the year 1968 the Department was renamed as Department of Ceramic Engineering. Presently this department is unique in the country which offers B.Tech., M.Tech. and Ph.D. Programmes in the areas of Ceramic Engineering and Technology. The Department has so far produced more than 1000 graduates, 100 postgraduates and 30 Ph.Ds.
The Department is pursuing active research in the emerging areas of glass, glass ceramics, refractories, electronic ceramic, cement and pottery & porcelain. Research papers are being published in reputed national and international journals regularly. Considering the important role that the department of Ceramic Engineering has played, the University Grants Commission has granted funds under ‘Special Assistance and COSIST’ Programmes. Many R& D projects have been sponsored by AICTE, DST, CSIR and UGC. The Department celebrated its Platinum Jubilee during 1999 for 75 years of Ceramic education and organized a ‘National Seminar on Challenges of 21st Century’.
